---
author: [Yuan Zhou, Weiwei Gong, Vinita Subramanian, Teck Hua Lee, Tirthankar Lahiri, Shasank Chavan, Sebastian DeLaHoz, Roger Ford, Rohan Aggarwal, Mark Hornick, Malavika S P, Harichandan Roy, George Krupka, Doug Hood, Dinesh Das, David Jiang, Boriana Milenova, Bonnie Xia, Aurosish Mishra, Angela Amor, Agnivo Saha, Aleksandra Czarlinska, Ramya P, Usha Krishnamurthy, Tulika Das, Suresh Rajan, Sarika Surampudi, Sarah Hirschfeld, Prakash Jashnani, Jody Glover, Jessica True, Mamata Basapur, Maitreyee Chaliha, Gunjan Jain, Frederick Kush, Douglas Williams, Binika Kumar, Jean-Francois Verrier]
publisherinformation: May2024
---

# Vector Distance Operand to the VECTOR\_DISTANCE Function

`VECTOR_DISTANCE()` is the main function that allows you to calculate distances between two vectors.

The `VECTOR_DISTANCE()` function takes two vectors as parameters. You can optionally specify a distance metric to calculate the distance desirably. If you do not specify a distance metric, then the default distance metric is the `COSINE` metric.

You can optionally use the following shorthand functions too : `L1_DISTANCE`, `L2_DISTANCE`, `COSINE_DISTANCE` and `INNER_PRODUCT`. These functions take two vectors as input and return the distance between them.

All of these functions return the vectors' distance as a `BINARY_DOUBLE`.

When using the `VECTOR_DISTANCE()` function to perform a similarity search, note the following caveats:

-   If a similarity search query *does not* specify a distance metric in the `VECTOR_DISTANCE()` function, then the default `COSINE` metric will be used for both exact and approximate \(index-based\) searches.
-   If a similarity search query does specify a distance metric in the `VECTOR_DISTANCE()` function, then an exact search with that distance metric is used if it conflicts with the distance metric specified in a vector index. If the two distance metrics are the same, then that will be used for both exact and approximate \(index-based\) searches.

## Syntax

For detailed information on the vector functions, see [Vector Functions](olink:SQLRF-GUID-C0C477F1-8210-4CA9-A5FA-0A340C409892) in *Oracle SQL Language Reference*.

**Parent topic:**[Vector Distance Functions](GUID-8667D062-8084-4E55-8BD7-2C84E05F52FA.md)

**Related information**  


[Perform Exact Similarity Search](GUID-CCCF06F5-AD46-466D-99B2-4609B84C2B69.md#)

[Perform Approximate Similarity Search Using Vector Indexes](GUID-D8432ADA-38B0-4E5F-975F-E86977CA8488.md#)

